The file system is implementated in the following eight layers.

Buffer Cache layer
------------------

A buffer cache has two jobs:
 * synchronize access to disk blocks to ensure that only one copy of a block is
    in memory and that only one kernel thread at a time uses that copy, and
 * cache popular blocks so that they don’t have to be re-read from the (slow)
   disk.

Files: bufcache.h, bufcache.c.
Dependent files:
 * params.h  -- filesystem parameters.
 * kern/lib/buf.h  -- definition of buffer data structure.
 * kern/dev/disk/ide.h  -- IDE disk driver, which reads and writes blocks on an
   IDE hard drive.

Block layer
-----------

This layer allocates raw disk blocks. The file system divides the disk blocks
into several sections.  Block 0 holds the boot sector, so it cannot used by the
file system. Block 1 is called the superblock. It contains metadata about the
file system (the file system size in blocks, the number of data blocks, the
number of inodes, and the number of blocks in the log). Blocks starting at 2
hold inodes, with multiple inodes per block. After those come bitmap blocks
tracking which data blocks are in use. Most of the remaining blocks are data
blocks; each is either marked free in the bitmap block, or holds content for a
file or directory. The blocks at the end of the disk hold the logging layer’s
log.

Files: block.h, block.c
Underlays: bufcache.h
Dependent files:
 * stat.h  -- defines the file statistics data structure.
 * dinode.h  -- defines the on-disk inode data structure, containing a size and
   an array of block numbers.

Log layer
---------

Simple version logging mechanism for crash recovery. It allows higher layers to
wrap multi-step updates to several blocks in a single transaction, to ensure
that blocks are updated atomically.

Files: log.h, log.c
Underlays: bufcache.h, block.h

Inode layer
-----------

Inode allocator, reading, writing, metadata. This layer provides unnamed files,
each represented using an inode and a sequence of blocks holding the file's
data.

Files: inode.h, inode.c
Underlays: bufcache.h, log.h, block.h
Dependent files:
 * stat.h  -- defines the file statistics data structure

Directory layer
---------------

A directory is an inode with special contents (i.e., a list of other
inodes). Its inode has type T_DIR and its data is a sequence of directory
entries. Each entry is a struct dirent, which contains a name and an inode
number.

Files: dir.h, dir.c
Underlays: inode.h

Path layer
----------

This layer provides paths like /kern/fs/file.c for convenient naming.

Files: path.h, path.c
Underlays: inode.h, dir.h

File descriptor layer
---------------------

Each thread has its own table of open files, or file descriptors. A file
descriptor is represented by a struct file, which is a wrapper around an inode.

Files: file.h, file.c
Underlays: inode.h, dir.h, path.h

Syscalls
--------

The file-system system calls. Most of these syscall functions are just wrappers
around the functions in the file descriptor layer, taking care of correctly
fetching the syscall arguments.

Files: sysfile.h, sysfile.c
Underlays: inode.h, dir.h, path.h, file.h
Dependent files:
 * fcntl.h  -- defines file modes

